All right let's go ahead and start painting the golden ring around her Gem.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and switch over to grab a move tool
and then we're just going to click on our ruler lines and drag them off.
So that way they're no longer in the way.
Next we're going to go ahead and wrasse dries this layer that has our rivets on it because we're about
to merge them together and we don't want the effect on the rivets to be applied to our ring.
So we're going to right click on that layer and then we're going to come up to raster layer.
And then we're going to select both our layers and merge them together.
So now the whole ring is one layer.
Next let's go ahead and create a new layer above that and we're going to right click that layer and
transform it into a clipping layer mask.
Now the way we paint this is going to be the exact same way we painted the blade on our sword and the
metal part of the handle of our support.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So first off I'm going to go ahead and select my yellow and then I'm going to grab a really bright yellow
so somewhere about there should be good.
OK.
And now I'm to start painting with this.
Now I'm going to switch over to a brush that has more texture.
So maybe we can try this guy out right next to our paintbrush and we're going to go ahead and start
painting with that.
I'm going to paint at 10 percent opacity and actually I'll switch that to 20 percent capacity and I'm
just going to start painting like so just getting my highlights in there.
Now basically the entire surface is going to have high light on it.
Except for this underside there's going to be a shadow as this ring is going to be a little bit and
beveled
next.
I'm going to go ahead and grab it Durka version of this yellow.
So grab that yellow and come down like so.
And since this is going to be a shadow I'm going to make it a little bit cooler.
So I'm going to come up towards my greens.
So it's almost going to be a greenish yellow.
OK.
Now let's go ahead and start filling in bottom areas of our rings so right around here it's going to
get that shadow color
same with underneath here.
Now because this jewel is going to be rounded like a sphere it's going to be blocking the light.
That would be hitting the top surface right here.
So rather than getting to highlight this edge is going to get a shadow
just like so now we can go ahead and select this dark shadow color that we have right here for our rivets
and we're going to start painting with that for next layer.
So start adding in just like this.
And for this style it's OK if you mess up a little bit because what I'm going for is I'm trying to go
for something that looks handmade like it was almost like hammered out a gold or forged out of gold.
All right.
Now let's start getting some more detail in there.
So I'm going to slide this even Durka version of our shadow color over here.
I'm going to start painting with it but with a smaller brush size.
And I'm just going to start painting in like so and I'm insert blending that shadow from my rivet onto
the surface together
and over here it started being covered up I'm going to go ahead and start painting that back in
great and that we can see her adding some more detailed shadows on the edges.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and grab a white collar or almost white someone to come to about their come into
my yellow's And now let's go ahead and start painting even brighter highlights especially along these
edges.
Also on the top of our rivets we're going to add some highlight specially in these areas I got painted
over
and then them to go ahead and switch over to a larger brush size.
And I'm going to go ahead and start painting and some of this more light color all over the flat surface
of the ring
great.
Now I got a little paint over the edges of my rivets someone to go ahead and come back to my Rivett
color.
Go ahead and fix those.
So just paint back over it seems here.
It's we're here.
And we'll fix that also.
Right.
Next let's go ahead and introduce a bounce light.
So I'm going to come in to my colors and I'm going to come into my blues because we want to bounce light
to be cool color because a cool color with a warm color will look nice together.
And I'm going to come up to a light blue summer about like so and using my brush tool and putting my
brush opacity at 10 percent.
I'm going to go ahead and add bounce light to the bottom of my Rivett.
So I'll probably add it right about there.
And we're just going to have it round around this edge like so and blended in we'll do another one over
here and we'll put it on the opposite side on the bottom and then we'll go ahead and add that to the
bottom or if it's on a bottom rivets we can have it come all the way around.
And I'll explain why here in a second.
Now the reason why we had to come all the way around was because there's nothing over here and there's
nothing over here.
So it can get anything bouncing off onto the bottom of here from both sides right here.
The bounce on this side is going to be the bounce light coming from the glow of our gym.
So that's why we left that out.
So now we can go ahead and switch over to a yellow color.
I'm going to go ahead and paint in the bounce light on this side.
But with yellow
great now I'm going to go ahead and select my dark shadow color hair again and what I want to do is
I want to change it more towards the Greens.
So coming into my color picker I'm going to drag it up towards my greens and I'm going to start painting
a little bit of green shadow there.
Now the reason for this is because if you look at reference of gold gold tends to have a green shadow.
So we're going to add just the tiniest bit of a green tent towards shadows.
So we'll go ahead and start painting that in.
But this will make it look a lot more realistic.
Next let's go ahead and introduce some oranges here.
So I'm going to select my neutral yellow color.
I can find them right there on that Rivet and then I'm going to come and bring it down into the oranges
about there should be good.
OK.
And now I just want to start painting in a little bit of orange in there.
So we have another layer of color and it doesn't have to be everywhere just in some areas and there's
not necessarily any specific spots you have to add it in.
You just want to add some of that orange in there generally probably keep it towards the edge of the
shadows.
Awesome.
Next let's go ahead and add a really bright highlight so I'm going to change my color to a solid white.
Then bring in my brush opacity all the way up to 80 percent.
I'm going to go ahead and paint along the top of our room like so
then I'm going to go ahead and add some to the top of my ribbon also.
So just right there
next I'm going to go ahead and bring my brush opacity down to 30 percent and then I'm going start blending
this in a little bit more
with on top of my rivets.
And then we're going to add a little bit of some transparent white down the middle of it in some white
down this middle also blend that in and finish it all the way around our ring to this point.
Great.
Now what we want to do is we want to start selecting colors and painting with them at full opacity.
So I'm going to switch over to my color picker and go ahead and select that color and I'll start painting
with that at full capacity.
Then I select another color so maybe that color it there.
And also like this one and you don't have to select every color you just want to select some of them
and start painting with them in areas at full capacity.
This is going to make it look more like a painting.
Like I said before
great.
Now let's go ahead and zoom out and see how this looks.
From far away.
All right.
I think it's looking pretty good.
I think we need a little bit more Shatto along these bottom edges so I'm going to go ahead and select
my shadow color and then I'll go ahead and paint in some more shadows and I'm going paint them in at
30 percent opacity.
And I think what we need is we just need them to be thicker
and then I'll do the same thing on this side.
I'm going to bring my brush opacity down to 10 percent because it's looking a little bit too dark for
me.
Then I'll do the same thing on the top side bring my brush opacity up to 20 percent
and then I'm going to go ahead and select my yellow.
So there's some yellow right here and I'm going to go ahead and paint in some yellow back into this
area because we're sort of losing the yellow and it's looking too white.
So we'll go ahead and paint that in and maybe a little bit over here also a little bit over here.
Right.
I think that looks a little bit better.
Now I'm noticing that we forgot to add a blue bounce light to this bottom part of our ring.
So I'm going to go ahead and select this blue and then I'm going to come up so that it's lighter then
we can go ahead and paint that back in.
So we're going to put it at 20 percent opacity.
I'm just going to paint along the bottom just like so
and then we also want to add some bounce light work low light whatever you want to call it to this inside
edge because if this is getting bounce light right there then this also needs to be getting some of
that bounce light.
So I'm going to select this yellow right here and I'm going to begin painting with it right along the
edge like so
and then we can come down here and do the same thing.
Now my color is a little bit too dark so I'm going to lighten it just a little bit for down here.
Well go ahead and start painting again.
That works much better.
All right.
Now just to skip redundancy I went ahead and skipped forward in this part of the course and all I did
is I went through there and I grabbed those mid colors and then painted them in with 100 percent opacity
like we've done before.
Just to give it that painter look and then I went in there and I painted in some scratches and divots
and now we're going to go ahead and add in some highlights for those.
So these scratches and divots are just like when we did scratches and divots for our sword blade.
Now the color that I selected was the shadow color from my rivets.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So let's select a light yellow color I'm going to select this color here then switch over to my brush
to go ahead and start adding those highlights in so I add one in right.
They're allowed one on the bottom of here and so just remember the light sources come in from the top.
And so we're going to be getting these highlights on the bottom of our scratches and rivets divot.
Sorry about that.
And then we're going to go ahead and select this yellow color right here and use that for the highlight
on this guy because he's in shadow.
All right let's go ahead and zoom out.
See that looks perfect.
Now he could maybe use one more over here.
Going to go out and select this color and I'll go ahead and paint in a scratch right across.
Like so and maybe I'll give it a little bit of a curve and then I'll come back to my yellow color and
look at it in that highlight.
All right that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to paint the golden ring on your gem you learn how to do the highlights
and the shadows and you also learn how to add a bounce light to it to make it look more realistic.
And lastly you added in some scratches and texture in to your ring.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one where we're going
to go ahead and start creating the Jim.